# Reproducible-Analysis-Models-for-Predicting-Genomics-Workflow-Execution-Time

This task is set up into two task 
1) Finalizing the dataset , workflow associated to it and which metric is best for the quantification of dataset
2) Implementing ML Algorithms and calculating the accuracy and execution period for this dataset 


# Task 1 - Dataset ,Workflow , Quantification method

Dataset - The dataset is taken from Project TCGA-BRCA  , named Breast Invasive Carcinoma with data categories as 
Sequencing Reads ,Transcriptome Profiling ,Simple Nucleotide Variation ,Copy Number Variation ,DNA Methylation ,Clinical ,Biospecimen as data categories 0 to 8 rank in the columns 

Workflow - RNA sequencing , Methylation Array Harmonization Workflow 

The RNA-Seq Analysis pipeline quantifies protein-coding gene expression based on the number of reads aligned to each gene. A "two-pass" method is used in which RNA-Seq reads are first aligned to the reference genome to detect splice junctions. A second alignment is then performed using the information from splice junctions to increase the quality of the alignment. Read counts are measured on a gene level using STAR and normalized using the Fragments Per Kilobase of transcript per Million mapped reads (FPKM) and FPKM Upper Quartile (FPKM-UQ) methods with custom scripts. Transcript fusion files are also generated using STAR Fusion and Arriba. HTSeq quantification is no longer supported as of Data Release 32 with the new GENCODE v36 data model.

The   Methylation Array Harmonization Workflow uses raw methylation array data from multiple generations of Illumina Infinium DNA methylation arrays, namely Human Methylation 27 (HM27), HumanMethylation 450 (HM450) and EPIC platforms, to measure the level of methylation at known CpG sites as beta values, calculated from array intensities (Level 2 data) as Beta = M/(M+U). This differs from the   Methylation Liftover Pipeline in that the raw methylation array data is used instead of submitted methylation beta values, and the data is processed through the software package   SeSAMe[1]. Additionally, the analysis results from the Methylation Array Harmonization Workflow are expected to be of higher quality than results from the Methylation Liftover Pipeline.


Quantification metric used - star method
the STAR-Fusion v1.6 algorithm to generate gene fusion data. STAR-Fusion pipeline processes the output generated by STAR aligner to map junction reads and spanning reads to a junction annotation set. It utilizes a chimeric junction file from running the STAR aligner and produces a tab-limited gene fusion prediction file. The prediction file provides fused gene names, junction read count and breakpoint information.

# Task 2 - ML Algorithm  used
Models used here are :

1)KNN --> KNN algorithm at the training phase just stores the dataset and when it gets new data, then it classifies that data into a category that is much similar to the new data.

2)SVM --> The goal of the SVM algorithm is to create the best line or decision boundary that can segregate n-dimensional space into classes so that we can easily put the new data point in the correct category in the future. This best decision boundary is called a hyperplane.

3)LOGISTIC REGRESSION --> In Logistic regression, instead of fitting a regression line, we fit an "S" shaped logistic function, which predicts two maximum values (0 or 1)

4)GAUSSIAN NAIVE BAYES --> It is a probabilistic classifier, which means it predicts on the basis of the probability of an object


